# FOSS4G Paper Review (9/9/2019)
### Minghini, Brovelli, & Frassinelli: [**An open source approach for the intrinsic assessment of the temporal accuracy, up-to-dateness and lineage of OpenStreetMap**](https://www.int-arch-photogramm-remote-sens-spatial-inf-sci.net/XLII-4-W8/147/2018/isprs-archives-XLII-4-W8-147-2018.pdf)
Minghini, Brovelli, and Frassinelli employ a robust technique of assessing OpenStreetMap (OSM) data quality using an intrinsic methodology that evaluates OSM’s data quality (e.g. positional accuracy, “up-to-dateness”, etc.) with the OSM dataset as the basis of comparison. The authors argue that such an approach is not paid as much attention as extrinsic methodologies (i.e. those that use external datasets as the basis of comparison) in existing literature on OSM quality assessment. Furthermore, they cite studies conducted in specific regions where OSM data quality was found to be superior to external governmental datasets, thus presenting a challenge to the effectiveness of extrinsic approaches. The authors examine OSM data in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, a city that has been subject to numerous humanitarian mapping efforts as a result of the significant presence of informal settlements and vulnerability to flooding. Dar es Salaam is consequently one of the most densely mapped areas in the world on OSM.

The authors notice that node density increases when moving from the periphery to the city center, which they argue serves as a proxy for higher quality data (more nodes = better quality). This occurs as a result of more OSM contributors who update data in the city center on a more frequent basis. Using an open source platform such as OSM to conduct this study is necessary, particularly given the ubiquity of external dataset comparisons. Because the data is crowdsourced and made publicly available, it is not subject to the proprietary interests of larger organizations (i.e. governments and corporations). The data originates from individuals, rather than an organization that likely lacks the same degree of local knowledge.

# Lab #1 - Models of Urban Structure in QGIS (9/12/2019)
### Distance & Direction from Central Business District (CBD) Model
This week, we constructed a model in QGIS to illustrate Homer Hoyt's model of urban structure. The model can be downloaded [**here**](https://marcovg.github.io/DistanceAndDirectionFromPoint.model3). This algorithm calculates the distance (in meters) and direction (in degrees) of a set of input features from the mean coordinates of the centroids of a user-specified feature class. This algorithm could theoretically be applied if the user is seeking to analyze how distance and direction from a "central business district" affect trends and patterns across space in an urban environment.
